[Music]
we all remember Marilyn Monroe singing
diamonds are a girl's best friend but
did she double-check those sometimes
it's hard to be sure if it's genuine so
here are 12 simple ways to spot fake
jewelry yep it's no secret that the
market is flooded with fake jewelry and
that's all fine and good if you're
paying a super low price knowing very
well that what you're buying isn't the
real deal
however the problem comes when you think
you're getting a real diamond ring you
pay top dollar for it and only later see
that it's totally fake up to protect
yourself from being a victim of deceit
here are 12 simple ways to spot
counterfeit jewelry you can check your
jewelry at home or even use some of
these methods right there in the store
before you hand over your hard-earned
cash and don't forget we have a lot more
useful advice and eye-opening facts like
this on the bright side of life so be
sure to subscribe and ring that bell to
be notified of each and every one of our
daily updates all right starting with
metals there are several ways to find
out if you've been sold an item made of
real precious metal or if you've been
tricked into buying a fake number one
hallmark trademark now in most European
countries you can check the hallmark
which is regulated by the government if
you're in the US it should be enough to
look for the manufacturers trademark
since government hallmarking isn't
really a thing there if a manufacturer
or seller claims that something is 24
karat gold when it's not you can just
sue them the threat of prosecution is
usually enough to keep them in line
as for hallmarking it's basically a
three-digit number that tells you how
much precious metal is in a certain item
you just add a decimal point after the
second digit to get the percentage for
example a hallmark of 925 means that a
piece of jewelry is ninety two point
five percent pure it's super easy to
find information about which hallmarks
are
typical for different metals online all
you have to do is compare the
information from the internet with the
engraving on your jewelry item pay
attention to the numbers themselves they
should be accurate and easy to read if
they aren't you better not risk buying
something of questionable quality here
are typical hallmarks you can find on
jewelry made of the following precious
metals gol 375 500 583 585 750 916 958
999 silver 808 3875 925 960 and 999
platinum 850 900 950 999 number two a
magnet what an attractive solution this
method can be used to examine the
jewelry you already have at home or the
item you're planning to get at the store
when you go jewelry shopping keep a
magnet in your bag the thing is that
fake jewelry contains more iron since
it's not as pure iron of course is
magnetic a genuine item of jewelry with
a high content of precious metal won't
stick to a magnet that's why you can
take out that magnet you brought with
you and figure out if you're being
offered the real deal or not number 3
damages platinum and silver look very
similar so it's all too easy to replace
the more expensive metal with the
cheaper one a fake made of silver will
give itself away with a blackish shoe
and more flexibility as for platinum it
doesn't have these properties real gold
leaves golden traces on unburnt and
unglazed ceramic tiles or porcelain well
the traces from counterfeits are usually
grey or black you probably won't have
any difficulties checking your jewelry
with this method at home but what about
in store before you buy bringing a
porcelain cup with you when you go
shopping might seem a little over the
top so you can use the other
less obvious methods like the magnet
test you can also check the purity of a
jewelry item you have or are about to
buy by putting different compositions on
its surface for example you can try
number 4 chalk a simple method to check
your silver is to use chalk if it starts
to darken when you rub it in chalk it's
real 5 iodine
you can check gold with iodine if
there's a stain left on the item after
the test it's an obvious sign of a fake
or a really low content of precious
metal sex vinegar another way to check
gold is the vinegar test fake or impure
goal darkens and vinegar very quickly so
simply pour a little vinegar into a
glass and keep the piece of jewelry in
it for about 5 minutes of course you
probably won't be able to use this
method right there in the store unless
you bring in a big bowl of salad and
tell the sales person you're on your way
to lunch then oops
drop the gold into the salad and take
your time fishing it out oh how clumsy
of me
number 7 sulfur Aunt May now this
ointment traditionally used to treat
acne can also check the genuineness of
your silver for you if the item is made
of real silver then the place where you
apply the ointment will become dark blue
and don't worry about ruining your
jewelry this way
even if it shows this spot you can
easily remove it plus you'll know that
your silver jewelry is real number 8
ammonia now ammonia is a good way to
check if the item you have is real
platinum when it interacts with most
metals ammonia causes the surface to
blacken but this doesn't happen when
it's applied to a piece of jewelry made
of platinum gems now that you've checked
out all your precious metals let's see
what you can do to find out if the
gemstones in your jewelry items are real
9 diamond a real diamond won't fog up
when you breathe hot air on it
because it has a high
thermal conductivity also when you look
down at the top of a diamond and see
rainbow holographic reflections it's
either a fake or a low quality diamond
and if you're a brave soul you can try
this sort of crash test heat the stone
up with a lighter for about 30 seconds
and then drop it into cold water right
away if it's glass or quartz the stone
will shatter from the inside
due to the drastic temperature change
but if you're dealing with a real
diamond
nothing will happen these stones are
famous for being tough number 10 emerald
now in order to determine the
authenticity of an emerald you should
examine the structure of the gem under a
magnifying glass a genuine emerald
doesn't have to Buehler or spiral
patterns inside plus a real emerald
conducts warmth badly and therefore
always stays cool to the touch there's
also a way to check if an emerald is
natural or synthetic using a long wave
black line don't worry this is the most
popular type so it's really easy to find
turn off all the lights in the room and
shine your black light onto the gem if
you notice a fluorescence of olive green
bright red or yellow well we hate to
break it to you but your emerald is a
fake if you see an orange or dull red
fluorescence the emerald might be either
natural or synthetic not much help here
I'm afraid and if there's no
fluorescence chances are your gem is a
natural emerald if none of these work
just take it to the wizard in Emerald
City he may not know courage or brains
but Oz knows emeralds number 11 pearl
now genuine pearls are expensive and
that's why you shouldn't expect an item
that doesn't cost much to be real in
order to determine the authenticity of a
pearl it'll be enough to check it with
your teeth if you try to bite a pearl
you'll feel that it creaks likes and
artificial pearls don't do this
or you can cast the pearls before swine
if they ignore it then surely it's fake
no I made that up and of course I know
you're not sure like twelve amber place
a piece of amber into a glass of salty
water three tablespoons of salt will be
enough an item made of glass or plastic
as well as fake amber made of epoxy
resin will sink instantly on the other
hand genuine amber will float since it's
less dense than saltwater you can also
try it rubbing amber with a woolen
fabric it should produce a staticky
shock on top of that the real deal will
attract small threads and dust to itself
so have you ever used any of these
methods to find out if your jewelry is
real or fake how did it go do you know
any other ways to check precious metals
and gemstones share your experience and
expertise in the comments below give
this video a thumbs up for the useful
tips and help your friends out by
sharing it with them don't forget to
subscribe and join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]